---
title: CDex Build Accurate Risk Profiles and Health Records
layout: default
active: CDex Build Accurate Risk Profiles and Health Records
---

## Use Case Description
Payers need to create complete, accurate risk profiles for members to support value-based care contracts and population health adjustments, or to confirm the accuracy of a claim. They gather information for this purpose on an annual contracting basis, on a monthly basis, and update it as new claims are paid. Risk adjustments are submitted to CMS annually, but receiving this information after each visit would make it more useful. The information can come from any provider (a vist  at a time), but typically from outpatient providers and usually from network providers. Data needs to come from the Provider of Record, not from an aggregation created by an HIE. Medical records, a progress note or visit summary would be useful. C-CDAs of various types would be ideal when they include patient demographic data as well as Problems, Medications, lab results, Assessment for Diagnoses, vital signs (BP), and Narrative (clinical notes). 

## Examples
Payers need to provide CMS with Risk Adjustment submissions annually.

Payers may assess claims submitted by providers either before payment or after payment. During the review, the payer may require additional documentation to confirm the completeness and accuracy of the claim. The additional documentation may include basic information about the member such as existing conditions, plan of care, etc. and information related to the specific service in question such as encounter details, face-to-face evaluation, discharge summary, progress note, etc. The payer needs to review these documents to establish medical necessity of the service, compliance with payer coverage rules, reduce improper payments, and to detect fraud, waste, and abuse. In cases when the service provided is arising from the referral or order from another provider, documentation from multiple parties may need to be included by the billing provider/supplier. This use case will also apply to medical documentation submitted along with Prior Authorization requests. Payers are exploring the possibility of computer assisted reviews so that the reviews can be expedited. In order to achieve this goal, it is imperative that all medical documentation be in a structured format, such as C-CDA or FHIR resources.